what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if you need
to the channel hi my name is Nasir and
I'm now a third-year international
medical student studying at King's
College London and right now between my
third year and my fourth year of medical
school is what I'm studying and
preparing for the USMLE exam the reason
that I'm making this video is that if
you're an international medical student
like myself so you're not studying at a
medical school in the United States well
then nobody really talks about the USMLE
nobody tells you or teaches you how to
prepare for it and it's all very very
confusing so I'm making this video
hopefully to help people who are
currently in the same situation that I
was two months ago who are looking at
the u.s. M leagues I'm not knowing where
to start or how to prepare for it I feel
like I finally found my routine I found
my groove I've done a lot of research
and I feel confident and ready to make
this video if you've already taken the
USMLE exam or currently studying or
preparing for it please do share any
tips or tricks in the comments down
below I would love if we could create
this community of helpful knowledge
information and resources just to help
each other out of it during this very
difficult time the first thing that I
want to say about studying for the USMLE
step 1 exam is that this is a very long
process this is a very hard process and
a very expensive process it's an 8 hour
long exam that takes the average student
between 6 and 9 months to study for so
in case this is the first time you're
doing research about the USMLE step one
I think it's a good idea to know what
you're up against
if you're an IMG like myself then your
medical school is not going to give you
dedicated time off in order to study for
this exam and so you're probably gonna
have to carve a routine into your
already existing medical school schedule
studying you know after lectures after
hospital placement in the evenings and
on the weekends and things like that so
it is a really difficult and self-driven
motivational process and having it
detailed of a flexible schedule is
something that's gonna be very important
to managing your studying over long
periods of time and I'll get into that
in a little bit when I talk about the
crown fighter now as you can imagine or
if you've done any research at all I'm
sure that you know that there are tons
and tons of different resources out
there to help you prepare for the USMLE
exam thankfully I know a group of people
who have already written this exam and I
have friends who are currently studying
and preparing for this exam right now
and so after talking to all of them and
doing tons of my own research online
I've accumulated what I believe to be
the best resources to help you study and
prepare for the USMLE exam okay so
here's the long list of resources that
I'm using
in order to prepare for the USMLE step 1
well the first aid book 2020 Edition
boards and Beyond video lecture series
path oma video lecture series with the
accompanying textbook sketchy micro
sketchy farm
Anke flashcards and then for the
question banks I'm currently using us
Emily rx
and I will be using you world question
Bank in the future and lastly the crime
fighter application for scheduling all
of this madness now that's obviously a
lot of resources and it's a lot of
different material to wrap your head
around but honestly as an international
medical graduates and the nature of the
USMLE built into our already existing
medical school schedule I feel that a
lot of these resources are necessary in
order to put us on the same page and
beyond what the average US medical
student is exposed to a quick disclaimer
is that you obviously don't need all of
these resources in order to do well on
the USMLE step 1 exam these are just
resources that I've been finding very
helpful in my studying and my
preparation and then I wanted to share
with you in this video alright now let
me break down each one of those
resources and tell you what it is that
I'm using them for and why I find them
very helpful keep forgetting to drink
coffee alright guys let's start off with
first aid for the USMLE step 1 this book
is basically the holy mecca for students
preparing for the step 1 exam you pretty
much can't say the words USMLE step 1
without saying first aid they go hand in
hand
it is a condensed collection of
high-yield facts and important points
obviously it covers all of the different
organ systems it covers both physiology
and pathology and it even covers
biochemistry immunology Public Health
Sciences ethics and things like that
it's basically like a syllabus of high
yield content for the step 1 exam I'll
follow the advice of all the students
who I talk to have taken this exam
before me and I've written down all of
my notes annotated in this one book and
the reason that I've done that is
because you're gonna be accumulating
information from a wide range of
resources and it's very useful to have
everything in one place it's kind of
like your encyclopedia if you want to
search up something and get all the
information that you've gathered for
that one topic in one place this is
where I'm gonna do it ok the next
resource that I'm using is the boards
and Beyond video lecture series this is
a comprehensive video lecture series
narrated by dr. Jason Ryan and it covers
pretty much everything it's as close as
you can get
the full curriculum for what you need to
know for the step 1 exam this is
basically like your medical school
curriculum from years one to three but
tailored and focused for studying for
step one as an international medical
student I'll let you know right now that
there's a decent gap between what my
medical school has taught me and what
I've come across in this video lecture
series so this will basically recap
everything that you've already learned a
medical school and then teach you
everything that your medical school
didn't dr. Ryan is an excellent teacher
I love how he explains every topic his
slides are simple and easy to understand
and he's just fantastic this is the
interface over here and you can see how
many hours each section has I'm
currently doing cardiology so let me
show you guys that right now so as you
guys can see here there's videos for
pretty much every topic that you need to
know within the cardiology section and
then every single one of these videos
it'll tell you what pages in the
first-aid book to refer to so that you
can go and take your notes in here and
then after every video there's a quiz
which is just great because you can
immediately test how much of that
knowledge you've picked up and focus on
things that you might have not really
understood that well but I'm basically
re teaching myself my medical school
curriculum by going through this video
lecture series recapping everything that
I already know and building and adding
on to that knowledge all right now let's
move on to talk about path omma
path oma is again a video lecture series
with this accompanying textbook that is
taught by dr. Sutter or sitar I hope I'm
saying that right but this book only
focuses on pathology
hence path oma now because this book
focuses on pathology and this book over
here include pathology and the boards
and bullion's lecture also includes
pathology obviously there's going to be
overlap between these three resources
but the reason that I like listening to
his video lectures is that he reacts
Plaines some of the complex topics in a
different way which helps me understand
them better and on top of that he has a
very very very high yield focus every
other sentence he says is accompanied by
this is a high yield fact and you should
make sure that you remember it I
actually find this book very useful also
because it helps organize information in
a different way that helps you sort of
put it in a mind map a little bit better
ended up annotating this book in here
simply because I don't have enough space
in the US under the first eighth book
all right now moving on from path oma if
you didn't know this already I hate to
be the bearer of bad news but for the
step one exam you have to remember a
ridiculous number of microorganisms and
medications and then an even
more ridiculous number of facts about
each and every single one of those as a
result of that you basically need to
memorize a stupid amount of material now
since this part of the exam is very
memorization heavy looking at blocks of
texts or lecture slides really isn't
that helpful and that's where sketchy
medical comes in to save the day
sketchy medical takes every single
microorganism and every single drug that
you need to know and turns it into a
sketch and because all of these sketches
are so weird strange and out of the
ordinary it actually helps you memorize
all the facts that you need to know for
these different microorganisms and drugs
so I'm personally using sketchy medical
for microbiology and also for
pharmacology so if we take bacteria over
here for example you'll see all the
different microorganisms and the
sketches that come along with them let's
take Group B Strep for example so if I
run through this video on three X speed
they'll get a bit of a better idea as to
what I'm talking about so every video
has a sketch and they walk you through a
story or a narration of all the
different facts you need to know about
that specific organism and how it
relates to this sketch personally I'm
much more of a visual learner and so
drawing out information in this way
really helps us stick in my memory a lot
better every student I've spoken to
who's taken the step one exam has sworn
by this resource and told me that I
absolutely have to use it so I took
their advice and I haven't regretted it
at all sketchy medical also does
physiology but because I have all these
other resources I'm not using it for
that I'm using it mainly from
microbiology and pharmacology okay so
moving on to the next resource which is
Anki flashcards personally I've never
really been a flashcard kind of guy and
I certainly would not be using Anki if I
had to make all the flashcards myself
but we're in luck because there's a
group of anonymous medical students who
have already created a deck with 30,000
cards in it to help you study and
prepare for the step one exam
not only do they have all of those cards
but they include images and references
back to first aid and other resources
for the step 1 exam they've absolutely
done God's work when it comes to doing
this and they deserve a huge huge
thank-you from the medical school
community I'll leave links in the
description down below so that you guys
can go download this exact deck and they
explain how to set it up properly and
use Anki and everything like that I am
an absolute Anki noob in fact I haven't
even started using this deck I plan to
use it in a month or so in the second
phase of my revision for the step 1 exam
but as you can see here there's a
whole range of tax for each and every
different section and within each one
you have even more sub categorizations
and let's click on one of these decks
for example I can start studying now
it'll start asking you questions you can
hit the spacebar and it's like a
flashcard I mean I'm sure you guys know
how thank you for because I don't need
to explain this I'm excited to use these
decks because it's a way to include
active recall and spaced repetition into
my studying routine which is at the very
top of the hierarchy of studying
techniques as far as it goes for memory
retention and long-term retention of
information
now the next two resources that I want
to talk about are the question banks
question banks are an absolutely
essential part of your studying you have
to be exposed to the questions and
understand what the questions look like
in order to know what they're going to
be like on the exam now let's start
talking about you world for the USMLE
step 1 exam as you can read here there's
over 2,800 practice questions that you
can do now this is the question Bank
that is most similar to the real
questions that you will see on the USMLE
step 1 exam and because of that most
students like myself we're saving these
questions towards the end of our study
period when we've already gone through
all of this material and at least
understand it somewhat well so we can
get a good estimate of how well we'll be
able to answer the actual questions on
the USMLE step 1 exam and so in the
meantime until you study enough to feel
ready to tackle questions that are going
to be very similar to what's on the step
1 exam I personally think that you need
another question Bank another resource
in order to continually test yourself
throughout the studying period so you
get exposed to what the questions are
going to look like in the future on exam
day and you get to test your knowledge
using active recall and learn so much
from making mistakes now there's a ton
of question banks out there I've
personally gone for the USMLE rx
question Bank I've no reason to tell you
why it's better than any other question
Bank out there it's just the one that's
been recommended to me by friends and
people who have taken this exam
previously and having used this question
Bank for a while I actually really like
it because you can go back to previous
tests that you've done like you can see
here and you can review your question so
for each question that you do whether
you get it right or wrong it shows you
explanations for each answer why the
answer is incorrect or why the answer is
correct and this is by far the most
important part of the learning process
for me it's doing questions and knowing
why I got the things
that I did get wrong on top of that it
directly links to the first eight books
as you guys can see over here for
example it tells me right here this is a
screenshot from the first eight book and
I can go back into the book and look at
my own notes on these things so for each
question that you do it shows you the
relevant pages in the first eight books
that you can go back and review that
material and that's obviously the most
important part because you can learn
from your mistakes and you can learn
from the questions you get right as well
when it comes to choosing questions to
test yourself with you can really
customize what you want easy medium hard
questions questions that I've seen
before questions that I haven't
questions that I've gotten write
questions that I've got it wrong and
then on top of that you can also really
narrow down which sections you want to
test yourself on it's for example here
by disciplines you can select biochem
and biology epidemiology whatever or you
can go by organ system hematology
musculoskeletal and neurology whatever
or you can organize by first-aid topics
which is great because after I finish a
chapter in the first-aid book I then go
on to do the same chapter in pathumma
and want something with that I come here
and I choose that specific section that
I just did to test my cell phone like I
said before I think question banks are
an extremely valuable resource when it
comes to preparing for any test and I
certainly have found using this question
Bank very helpful now finally the last
resource that I'm using to study for the
step 1 exam is an application called
crown fighter and cramp fighter is a
scheduled making application which is
just so so so useful basically how it
works is that you input dates for the
studying period that you want and then
you choose all of the resources that you
want to study and use during that study
period so for example over here I've
selected boards and beyond I selected
path AMA sketchy micro and then within
each one of these resources you can
individually select what it is that you
want to cover and each one tells you how
many minutes it's going to take to cover
that individual chapter or video or
pages or whatever so then after you've
selected all of your resources you tell
the application how many hours you want
to spend studying per day if you want to
take any days off in the week or for
example you want to take a holiday at
some point for example here I have
unscheduled days seven unscheduled days
any days you want to take practice tests
catch-up days I've put is every second
Saturday and basically you input all of
this information into this program what
resources you want to use how many hours
you want to study on what
of the wheat on what weeks of the month
you get to choose everything and then it
creates a schedule for you so for
example if you look over here you can
see my schedule for the month of May and
if I click on any one of these days it
breaks down all of the different
resources and things that I should be
doing it's for example on Tuesday May
5th I have all of these different things
scheduled I have a whole bunch of boards
and beyonds video lectures for the he
Munk section it looks like and then 57
questions of us Emily are xmax to do now
because like I mentioned before the
average student spends between 6 & 9
months studying for this test I think
it's so vital to be able to have a
schedule like this that helps keep you
focused and on track for that whole
duration of time and if one day for
example you're having a bad day and you
don't do any studying you just let
crimefighter know that in the
application and then it shifts all of
that content over the remainder of your
days so it's very flexible now don't get
me wrong you obviously don't need this
and if I wasn't using this I would make
my own schedule with a pen and paper
honestly I think it's so worth it purely
for that flexibility where you can
change things around and move things
forward or back if you decide to take a
day off or whatever oh okay I think
that's all of the resources that I'm
using to study for the step 1 exam let
me turn around and now like I already
mentioned I haven't actually written the
step 1 exam I'm currently studying and
preparing for it and so everything that
I said in this video are my thoughts and
ideas so far about the resources that
I'm using in case you're wondering how
much this costs I've chosen between the
three and six month plans for all of the
resources that I'm using and so far it's
cost me 550 pounds on top of that the
registration fees for actually taking
the step one exam have cost me over a
thousand pounds so like I said this is a
very long process this is a very hard
process and a very expensive process
with the USMLE step 1 exam if you write
the test and fail then you can retake it
but if you write the test and pass then
you cannot retake it again and so I
highly recommend that when you decide to
write the USMLE step 1 you do it once
and you do it right and that's why even
though all of these resources are really
adding up and I'm gonna be holed up in
this room studying for a long time like
I said I want to do this once and I want
to do it right all right and I think
that is it for this video thank you so
much if you've watched this entire thing
I hope
you found it useful especially if you're
an international medical student I know
that this was very very confusing for me
a couple of months ago if you've already
taken this exam or are currently
studying for you and have any useful
information at all to share please do
leave it in a comment down below I would
love it if we could share some of the
information and some of the things we've
learned from studying and writing this
exam and help each other out during this
difficult difficult time and that's it
for me please don't forget to leave a
like on this video and subscribe to my
channel to see more content from me in
the future happy studying good luck
studying I hope you're all doing well
during this time and I will see you in
the next one peace
turn around and